---
layout: default
title: Are "The 3 Empowering Policies" Defined And Published?
has_children: true
nav_order: 2
parent: Public Facing Practices
has_toc: false
---

{{ page.title }}
{: .fs-7 }

---

There are three public-facing policies you must have if a sysadmin team
is going to be able to get any work done. This is as much about serving
customers as it is enabling team efficiency.

If you are a manager that feels your team has bad time management
skills, maybe it is your fault for not having or not enforcing these
policies:

- The acceptable methods for users to request help.
- The definition of "an emergency".
- The scope of service: Who, what and where.

One document can explain all three things in less than a page. This
should be made available on the department's website or posters on the
wall so that it is clearly communicated. This policy must also be backed
up by management. That means they are willing to tell a user "no" when
they ask for an exception. The exception process should not be a
speed-bump, it should be a solid wall.

## How do users get help?

An official protocol for how users are to request help enables all the
benefits of the ticket system mentioned in the previous section. Without
it all those benefits evaporate as users will go directly to the
sysadmins who will, trying to be helpful, become interrupt-driven and
ineffective.

A sysadmin must have the ability to tell users to go away when the user
is not following the protocol. Without the ability to point to this
policy sysadmins will either work on low priority, squeaky wheel tasks
all day long, or each sysadmin will apply a different policy making the
team look inconsistent, or sysadmins will communicate their frustration
in unhealthy ways. Specifically, ways that are unhealthy for the user.

## What is an emergency?

An official definition of an emergency enables a sysadmin to set
priorities. Without this everything becomes an emergency and sysadmins
become interrupt-driven and ineffective.

The policy is one way management communicates priorities to sysadmins.
Otherwise sysadmins will guess and be wrong and be unfairly punished for
their incorrect guesses; managers will be confounded by the
"disconnect"; and users will see inconsistencies and assume favoritism,
neglect, and incompetence.

This policy sets users' expectations. Those that call everything an
emergency can be corrected of their illusion.

Every organization should have a definition of an emergency or a "code
red". A newspaper's code red is anything preventing tomorrow's edition
from being printed and loaded onto the 4am trucks. A factory's code red
is anything stalling the assembly line. A payment service's code red is
anything that is stopping the payment pipeline. Educational technology
teams know that a class can't simply be rescheduled therefore an
emergency is anything preventing the proper delivery of a lesson
(possibly only if the technology center was warned ahead of time). A
university defines a code red as anything preventing grant proposals
from being submitted in time.

A "code yellow" is anything that, if left unattended, would lead to a
"code red". For example, the payment pipeline might be functioning but
the capacity forecasting sub-system is down. It is risky to take on new
customers without being able to properly forecast capacity. The last
estimate indicated about 2 weeks of spare capacity. Risk of a melt-down
increases daily until the code yellow is resolved.

Anything else is "routine". Fancy sites may divide routine requests into
high, medium and low priorities; new service creation, provisioning of
existing services, and so on. But if you have none of that, start with
defining what constitutes an emergency.

## What is supported?

An official definition of what is supported enables sysadmins to say
"no". It should define when, where, who, and what is supported. Do you
provide support after 5pm? On weekends? Do you provide desk-side visits?
Home visits? Do you support anyone off the street or just people in your
division? What software and hardware are supported? Is there a support
life-cycle or once something is supported are you fated to support it
forever? Are new technologies supported automatically or only after an
official request and an official positive reply?

Without the ability to say "no", sysadmins will support everything. An
eager, helpful, sysadmin will spend countless hours trying to get an
unsupportable video card to work when it would have been cheaper to have
gifted him or her a supported card out of your own budget. A sysadmin,
assumed lost or dead, will magically reappear having spent the day at a
user's house fixing their Internet connection. Alternatively a
curmudgeonly sysadmin will tell people something isn't supported just
because they're busy.
